What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?
Initialization indicates that a new folder/files will be added to the version control.
This is required to ensure that the version control system is aware that new files are to be added.

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?
This is an intermediate location before doing a permanent commit to the repository.
The selective data can be pushed to the repository and being sure of moving it.
This gives a cleaner approach of what data that users want to push to repository instead of everything in the folder.

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?
The diff command helps in identifying the changes between the working directory and staging area.

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?
Branches are useful when you want to try something new experimental feature without breaking the working copy.
Branches help in implementing beta features and eventually merge with master copy after fully tested.

How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?
Diagrams are always good approach to understanding the concepts behind branching.

What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?
Merging branches would combine the code from master branch with the child.
The diagramatic representation would make it easier to understand which code base should be merged and which should not.

What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually?
Automatic merges are useful when only the users changes are merged to master copy with nothing updated on the master code base.
Merging manually is useful when there are mutiple changes on the same code block. This gives the user the option to decide which code block goes in the merged copy.